---
layout: post
title: Holidays
---

## Annual Holidays

The holiday year runs from 1st January to 31tst December each year.

Full time employees’ annual holiday entitlement in any holiday year is 34 days (inclusive of public holiday entitlement which you will be notified of in your contract of employment), which part time employees will receive pro rata.

Employees with less than 12 months’ continuous service with the Company are not entitled to take annual holiday until it has accrued.  In addition, during the first 90 days of your employment to avoid interruption to initial familiarisation and training, we would prefer that holidays are minimised unless approved, in writing, prior to your start date by management.  In any case, if you provide the Company with proper notice of any intended holidays, we will provide you with adequate notice of whether they can be approved or not.

Hourly paid employees will be paid at their basic rate of pay and salaried employees will be paid their basic salary in respect of periods of annual holiday.

The weekly holiday pay of employees with no normal working hours will be their average weekly pay calculated over the 12 working weeks before the holiday is taken.

Employees will accrue annual holidays during the Ordinary and Additional Maternity, Adoption and Paternity Leave periods.

On termination of employment, employees will be entitled to be paid for holiday accrued but not taken at the date of termination of employment.

If on termination of employment an employee has taken more annual holiday than he or she has accrued in that holiday year, an appropriate deduction will be made from the employee’s final pay.

All holidays must be notified at least 3 weeks before they are taken and agreed by your line manager.  Not more than two weeks should be taken consecutively unless specifically agreed otherwise.  It is expected that at least 1 full week’s holiday will be taken during the holiday year.

A maximum of 4 days’ accrued annual holiday entitlement which are in excess of the statutory entitlement, may be carried over from one holiday year to the next.

All periods of annual holiday must be authorised in advance by management. Employees must not make firm annual holiday arrangements before receiving confirmation from management that their request has been authorised.

Employees who take unauthorised annual holiday may be subject to disciplinary action.

Requests for annual holiday will normally be granted on a ‘first come, first served’ basis. Owing to the needs of the business, management reserves the right to limit the number of employees who may be permitted to take holiday at any one time. The granting of all holiday requests will be subject to adequate cover being available and the overall needs of the Company.

The Company may also require employees to reserve a specified amount of annual holiday entitlement to be taken at a time set by the Company, depending on the needs of the business and will give employees advance notice of such a requirement. The notice given will be at least twice the period of annual holiday that the employees will be required to take during the specified time.

Should an employee fall ill whilst on annual leave, normal absence procedures should be followed and in addition, a medical certificate will be required to cover any period of absence, not just those over the normal 7 day self-certification process.

The Company may require an employee to take all or part of any outstanding holiday entitlement during a period of notice to terminate employment.


